---
layout: article
title: Introduction to Beagle Project
subtitle: This page presents an introduction to the Beagle programming language project
categories: intro
toc: [ "Motivation", "The Project" ]
---

Welcome to the [Beagle project](https://github.com/brunexgeek/Beagle) web site! This project aim to create a new object-oriented programming language and compiler to create native applications and libraries. This page provides an introduction to the Beagle project, from planned features to detailed information about the design decisions.

## Motivation

Despite the fact that there are many available programming languages for all needs and tastes, I was looking for a programming language with some unusual set of features. I work in a research center and my team is focused on the development of technologies like speech synthesis and biometrics. We use a lot of code in Python to prototype experiments and when we reached good results we implement the algorithms in C/C++ to use in our products. We use Pyhon because it's easy and fast to implement (and, of course, have a lot of libraries for scientific computing). Also we use C/C++ because we need to create portable code to compile as optimized native libraries. It needs to run fast and be compatible with many other languages.

So I thought: what if we could combine the advantages of both programming languages? After a small web search I could not find a language that fits with my needs. Thus, I saw an oportunity to create something new. Basically I needed a programming language which:

+ Support for a minimal set of object-oriented features (dynamic dispatch, encapsulation, inheritance, etc.);
+ Compile to machine code;
+ Export classes in native libraries, not just C style functions;
+ Support to mix with C source code;

## The Project

This project aims to design a new programming language with the previously mentioned features and create it compiler. To simplify the initial release of the compiler, it will generate C source code from Beagle sourcecode rather than native binaries. Thus, one can use any C compiler to generate the native binaries and take advantage of all well-estabilished optimizations.

The following list describe all features for the first version of the Beagle programming language:

+ Whitespace indentation (off-side rule) like Python;
+ Object-oriented syntax and features similar to Java, C# and C++ (especially operator overloading);
+ Use of words instead symbols for some operators to improve readability;
+ Array indexing and [slicing](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Array_slicing);
+ Export classes and C style functions (static class methods);
+ Dynamically load classes;
+ Basic reflection (create objects and call methods) and meta-information querying.
+ Support to mix with C source code (link time);
+ Support to call C style functions from another libraries.

> This page is under construction.

<!-- In the following sections is presented detailed explanations of the features listed above. -->

<!-- ### Whitespace indented -->

<!-- ### Object-Oriented -->

<!-- ## Export Classes and Methods -->

<!-- ## Dynamic Class Loading -->

<!-- ## Reflection and Meta-programming -->

<!-- ## Compatible With C/C++ -->
